CONTENT_MIGRATION.md, before:

# Content migration

This document describes how to migrate existing content from Drupal to Wagtail.

## CiviCRM

CiviCRM stores contacts that are used in our Community Directory.

### Organizations (incl. meetings and worship groups)

1. Visit CiviCRM -> Search - Find Contacts
2. Set the search criteria to "is Organization"
   - this is because we only want organizations for our community directory
3. Click "search"
4. Click "Actions" -> "Export Contacts
5. Click "Select fields for export"
6. Choose "Organization export (mailing and worship)"
7. Click "Continue"
8. Click "Download File"
9. Open the CSV in LibreOffice and save it to fix the unicode issues with column names

Import the contacts with the following command.

```sh
python manage.py import_civicrm_contacts --file path/to/file.csv
```

### Addresses

### Relationships

1. Visit the CiviCRM [Relationships Report](https://westernfriend.org/civicrm/report/instance/5)
2. Click "Actions" -> "Download CSV"
3. Name the file "CiviCRM_relationships.csv"

### Clerk relationships

Commit message:

Add sections on organization addresses and meeting relationships

CONTENT_MIGRATION.md, after:

# Content migration

This document describes how to migrate existing content from Drupal to Wagtail.

## CiviCRM

CiviCRM stores contacts that are used in our Community Directory.

### Organizations (incl. meetings and worship groups)

1. Visit CiviCRM -> Search - Find Contacts
2. Set the search criteria to "is Organization"
   - this is because we only want organizations for our community directory
3. Click "search"
4. Click "Actions" -> "Export Contacts
5. Click "Select fields for export"
6. Choose "Organization export (mailing and worship)"
7. Click "Continue"
8. Click "Download File"
9. Open the CSV in LibreOffice and save it to fix the unicode issues with column names

Import the contacts with the following command.

```sh
python manage.py import_civicrm_contacts --file path/to/file.csv
```

### Addresses

Organization addresses can be imported with the same CSV downloaded in the previous section, by running the following command.

```py
python manage.py import_civicrm_addresses --file path/to/file.csv
```

### Relationships

1. Visit the CiviCRM [Relationships Report](https://westernfriend.org/civicrm/report/instance/5)
2. Click the "Filters" tab and select the following values for Contact Type A and Contact Type B
   - Yearly Meeting
   - Quarterly/Regional Meeting
   - Monthly Meeting
   - Worship Group
3. Click "View results"
4. Click "Actions" -> "Download CSV"
5. Name the file "CiviCRM_meeting_relationships.csv"
6. Open the file in LibreOffice and save it again as a CSV to fix the character encoding

Import the relationships with the following command.

```py
python manage.py import_civicrm_relationships --file path/to/file.csv
```

### Clerk relationships

TODO
